[Music]
eleven habits that can help you lose
weight fast admit it not all of us have
the best eating habits but if you can
recognize what you're doing wrong
it'll empower you to change your ways at
least according to certified dietician
kathleen Zelman
she says that breaking bad eating habits
and replacing them with good ones is the
key to effective weight loss and if you
take on an overall healthy lifestyle the
benefits will only be multiplied
besides shedding unwanted pounds you'll
have a stronger body and a happier
spirit so let's see exactly what you
should and shouldn't do if you want to
lose that extra weight for good stick
around till the end of the video for a
helpful bonus with some facts about
excess weight you might not be aware of
one avoid fat free products a study
published in the Journal of the
Association for consumer research showed
that people who consumed products that
were labeled fat-free found them less
filling and ended up eating more to
satisfy their appetite you see in order
to replace fats these foods are filled
with low performing carbs that get
digested so fast that the feeling of
hunger quickly comes back this means
that you'll need more in order to fill
your stomach resulting in weight gain to
get six to eight hours of sleep a day
researchers at Wake Forest Medical
Center have found that people who sleep
five or fewer hours at night put on over
two times more belly fat than those who
get an average of six to eight hours of
sleep a night this is especially true
for people under 40 not sleeping as much
as you should
makes you feel hungry even if you're not
and that's because sleep loss affects
the secretion of cortisol a hormone that
regulates the appetite
three don't drink coffee on an empty
stomach if you're like me you reach for
the coffeepot first thing in the morning
no breakfast no shower no talking only
coffee well looks like we're doing some
real damage to our bodies by drinking
coffee with nothing in our stomach
dr. Adam Simon the chief medical officer
at Busch doctor an online doctor
consultation service in the UK is also a
contributing writer to the sights blocks
in one of his articles he explains that
when coffee enters an empty stomach
it helps produce acid that can damage
your stomach lining and cause
indigestion Plus coffee stresses your
body out causing it to store fat for
don't watch TV or listen to music while
eating researchers at the University of
Vermont found that overweight people who
reduce their TV time by 50% burned an
average of 119 more calories a day
another study published on the journal
food quality and preference showed that
people who ate while listening to music
consumes significantly larger amounts
than those who dined in silence this is
because the mind is too preoccupied with
the surrounding distractions that it
doesn't realize you've eaten enough 5
don't go to the grocery store while
hungry oh yeah you know what I'm talking
about you go grocery shopping on an
empty stomach and end up shoving
everything you see into your cart so you
can probably guess what the solution is
Zellman recommends eating something
small and healthy before heading to the
grocery store it's also imperative to
bring a shopping list and stick to it as
best as you can
another really great idea is to sit down
and plan your meals for the week ahead
this way you'll know for sure what
products you'll need to hunt for 6 cut
way down on soda a regular 12 ounce soda
contains 140 calories and 39 grams of
sugar that means if you drink only one
can a day you will eventually start
putting on
a new study by Harvard th Chan School of
Public Health and Mexico's National
Institute of Public Health found that
women who reduced their soda intake to
just one can a week lost one pound more
than those who didn't cut back on the
sugary bubbly stuff the study lasted
from 2006 to 2008 and 11,000 218 women
took part in the research by the end of
this period the overweight participants
lost a ton of extra pounds just from
giving up pop seven cut out after-dinner
treats a lot of people tend to eat
something right after dinner
and that little treat usually comes in
the form of a sweet dessert Zelman
suggest starting a new habit of having a
cup of tea or drinking some sparkling
water instead of reaching for a sugary
snack generally you shouldn't eat
anything right after a meal because your
body gets all the sugar it needs right
from your food so you really don't need
anything else to sweeten your life and
if you constantly give your sweet tooth
what at once the extra sugar will cause
you to gain weight now dietitians don't
see anything wrong with having healthy
treats as part of a nutritionally
balanced diet so treat yourself right
[Music]
eight don't drink bottled water this one
will probably come as a shock to you
researchers at Washington State
University found that drinking water
from plastic bottles can actually be
fattening yep you heard right plastic
bottles contain BPA which is a chemical
that causes fatigue makes you put on
weight and disrupts your hormone levels
the study proved that BPA reduces
insulin sensitivity and accelerates the
formation of adipocytes or fat cells
what's even more alarming is that 92% of
the participants in the study had trace
amounts of BPA in their blood
9 limit your eating to certain time
slots in a 2013 study aptly called
timing of food intake predicts weight
loss effectiveness researchers found
that people who eat lunch later
between 3 & 4 p.m. lose less weight than
those who have had their lunch by 1:30
p.m. a different study showed that no
matter how many meals you have a day if
you eat the last one before 8 p.m.
you'll still consume fewer calories
overall what both studies prove is that
having a balanced eating schedule
results in satisfying your appetite
before you get so hungry that you end up
overeating each time you sit down to a
meal 10 make a habit of starting with a
light salad the Journal of the American
Dietetic Association published the
results of a study that involved giving
people a certain type of salad and then
a pasta dish afterwards in the end those
who started with a light salad consumed
7 to 12 percent less of their pasta
while the participants who had a heavier
salad actually consumed 8 to 17 percent
more of their second meal this proves
that plain salads made from kale spinach
lettuce and other leafy greens without
fattening dressings actually help you
eat less because they fill you up more
eleven eat the same sized portions
whether you're at home or out and about
I'm sure you've noticed how humongous
the portions at restaurants are at least
they're typically bigger than the ones
you consume at home
according to nutritionist Judy Caplan
when you eat larger portions your body
stores those excess calories as fat
since it can't do anything else with
them eating too large portions a day
won't replace five smaller ones and
that's because these big sizes slow down
your metabolism and cause you to gain
weight bonus tips not all people carry
their extra weight in the same areas of
their body so here are different types
of fat that stick to different parts of
you brown fat which collects in the
upper back and shoulders is the best cut
it's usually found in slimmer people
since it boosts metabolism by keeping
the body more that's also why babies
have more of this type of fat white fat
usually gathers around the midsection
and produces a good hormone called an
deep enacted which protects the body
from diabetes and heart disease
subcutaneous fat likes to collect in the
buttocks and thighs it's not a super
harmful type of fat and we'll get more
into that here in a sec visceral fat is
a dangerous type to have since it
gathers around the internal organs
mostly in the area of the belly and
waist belly fat is both subcutaneous and
visceral and it can be a sign of
diabetes going back to fat on the thighs
and buttocks it may be a lot better than
belly fat since a 2012 study showed that
pear-shaped women are protected from
metabolic disease this disease is
associated with a bunch of dangerous
conditions from increased blood pressure
to abnormal cholesterol levels there are
ways to avoid giving in to temptation
and eating snacks that your body doesn't
need here are some changes you should
consider making store unhealthy snacks
in your lowest cabinet so that they
won't be at your eye level and will
require more effort to get to replace
your traditional cookie jar with a fruit
bowl and opt for healthier snacks
throughout the day
find unhealthy foods at the
back of the fridge so that you won't see
them first thing as you open the door
out of sight out of mind which healthy
habits do you practice or plan on
adopting tell us in the comments below
and don't forget to like this super
useful video and subscribe to our
Channel this way you'll always stay on
the bright side of life